Add GSoC 2019 Project Report-LibrecoresCI(Nancy) (#22)
fossi-foundation/fossi-foundation.github.io: _posts/2019-08-23-gsoc_LibrecoresCI_Report.md

---
layout: post
title: "GSoC Project Report: Continuous Integration for Hardware Projects on LibreCores CI"
description: ""
category:
tags: ['GSoC', 'LibrecoresCI' ,'Fossi-Foundation']
author: Nancy Chauhan
---

Librecores provides a platform to share projects and ideas, in the area of free and open source digital hardware design. Librecores CI is an service to provide CI for hardware projects hosted on Librecores to improve user experience and reliability.

Throughout these summers I worked on developing continuous integration for Hardware Projects like OpenRISC. OpenRISC creates free and open processor for embedded systems.

I worked on GSoC Project from May to August 2019. In this project I worked on completely different technologies (EDA tools, processors, Docker, Jenkins , Groovy DSL & Jenkins Shared library) and GitHub organizations (OpenRISC, LibreCores, Fusesoc ). In this project I worked on the following goals:

> 1) Recover OpenRISC CI pipelines and modify them by using standard LibreCores images

Reviewer: Different tense in all sentences within the list

2) Optimised CI Pipelines with new test automation

3) Yosys Synthesis Metrics Parser developed and added to Librecores Standard image

4) Integration of `Yosys Synthesis` for monitoring resource usages and published on Jenkins

5) Exported OpenRISC test results to TAP and published on Jenkins

6) Move shared code of OpenRISC Pipelines to LibreCores Pipeline Library

7) Add TAP and Yosys code parsing & publishing steps to LibreCores Pipeline library

8) Default Pipeline for FuseSoC-based OpenRISC projects

## Community Bonding: Planning the solution

During the community bonding period, we planned over the goals of project and its timeline. My mentors guided me for existing CI pipelines and solutions
to proceed with the project.

> ## Coding Phase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Coding Phases
```

The coding phase consisted of 3 months, in which I implemented the ideas I proposed in my GSoC Proposal.

### First Phase

In the first month, I mostly worked on recovering OpenRISC CI pipelines as it worked on Travis CI before. Now the the openrisc Continuous Integration (CI) suite is running in a librecores-ci-openrisc docker container.

#### Links

> 1) Blog: <a href = "http://nancychauhan.in/stories/2019/06/28/gsoc-week3_4/"><strong>Coding Phase 1: Week 3 & 4 </strong></a>

Reviewer: Why not Markdown?
```suggestion
1) Blog: [Coding Phase 1: Week 3 & 4](http://nancychauhan.in/stories/2019/06/28/gsoc-week3_4/)
```

## Conclusion

Here is my <a href="https://github.com/orgs/librecores/projects/1">Project Dashboard</a> which has all my contributions to the project.

#### What tasks were accomplished

| Tasks        |    Planned             |    Completed  |
| --------------------------------- |  :-------------: | -----:|
| Recover CI Pipelines              | Yes | Yes |
| OpenRISC CI pipelines In Jenkins  | Yes | Yes |
| DockerImage for OpenRISC| Yes | Yes |
| Yosys Metrics Parser | Yes | Yes |
| Yosys Synthesis | Yes | Yes |
| Export Tests to TAP | Yes | Yes |
| Publish results with plugins| Yes | Yes |
| Openrisc Pipeline Library | Yes | Yes |
| Yosys Synthsis Pipeline Library | Yes | Yes |
| Fusesoc Pipeline Library | Yes | Yes |
| Open OCD / GDB| Yes | No |
| E-Mail Notification | Yes | WIP |

## What did I learn in GSoC

1) Various technologies i.e Docker, Jenkins

1) Groovy Programming and developing Jenkins Shared Library

2) Concepts of DSL and Closure

3) Learned about various EDA Tools

## Future engagements

> We are still aiming to involve more hardware projects to use generalised librecoresCI Pipeline library and tools .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like to invite more hardware projects to use the LibreCores Pipeline library and development tools.
If you are interested to do so, please reach out to us in the [LibreCores CI Gitter Chat](https://gitter.im/librecores/librecores-ci).
```

---
layout: post
title: "GSoC Project Report: Continuous Integration for Hardware Projects on LibreCores CI"
description: ""
category:
tags: ['GSoC', 'LibrecoresCI' ,'FOSSi-Foundation']
author: Nancy Chauhan
---

> Librecores provides a platform to share projects and ideas, in the area of free and open-source digital hardware design. Librecores CI is a service to provide CI for hardware projects hosted on Librecores to improve user experience and reliability.

Reviewer 2: Try to add links as you introduce new topics.

i.e.
[Librecores](https://www.librecores.org) provides a platform to share projects and ideas, in the area of free and open-source digital hardware design. [Librecores CI](https://www.librecores.org/static/librecores-ci) is a service to provide CI for hardware projects hosted on Librecores to improve user experience and reliability.

The more links the better.

> In these summers I worked on developing continuous integration solution for hardware Projects such as OpenRISC, a family of free and open-source processor implementations on the RISC architecture.

Reviewer 2: Grammar:
**This summer** I worked on developing continuous integration **pipeline** for hardware **projects** such as OpenRISC, a family of free and open-source processor implementations on the RISC architecture.

I worked from May to August 2019. In this project I worked on contrasting technologies (EDA tools, processors, Docker, Jenkins, Groovy DSL & Jenkins Shared Pipeline library) and GitHub organizations (OpenRISC, LibreCores, FuseSoC ) with the following goals:

> 1) Recover OpenRISC CI pipelines and modify them to use standard LibreCores images

Reviewer 2: Should this be: **Enhance** OpenRISC CI pipelines...
I don't think there was something to "Recover"?

> 2) Optimise CI Pipelines with new test automation

Reviewer 2: I think a better wording is: **Enhance** CI pipelines... here too. *Optimize* seems to intend you made them faster compared to the original travis pipeline.

> 3) Develop Yosys Synthesis Metrics Parse and add to LibreCores CI base image

Reviewer 2: Grammar: Develop **a** [Yosys](http://www.clifford.at/yosys/) **synthesis metrics parser** and add **it** to **the** LibreCores CI base image

> 4) Integration of _Yosys Synthesis_ for monitoring resource usages and publishing on Jenkins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) Add _Yosys Synthesis_  resource usage statistics parsing and publishing on Jenkins
```

> 5) Exported OpenRISC test results to TAP and published on Jenkins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5) Export OpenRISC test results to TAP and publish on Jenkins
```

6) Move shared code of OpenRISC Pipelines to LibreCores Pipeline Library

7) Add TAP and Yosys code parsing & publishing steps to LibreCores Pipeline library

> 8) Default Pipeline for FuseSoC-based OpenRISC projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8) Implement Default Pipeline for FuseSoC-based OpenRISC projects
```

1) [Presentation: 2019 Summer Project Demos][presentation]

## Conclusion

Here is my [Project Dashboard][dashboard] which has all my contributions to the project.

#### What tasks were accomplished

| Tasks                            | Planned | Completed |
| ---------------------------------|:-------:| :--------:|
| Recover CI Pipelines             |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| OpenRISC CI pipelines In Jenkins |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Docker Image for OpenRISC        |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Yosys Metrics Parser             |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Yosys Synthesis                  |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Export Tests to TAP              |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Publish results with plugins     |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Openrisc Pipeline Library        |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Yosys Synthesis Pipeline Library |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Fusesoc Pipeline Library         |   Yes   |    Yes    |
| Open OCD / GDB                   |   Yes   |    No     |
| E-Mail Notification              |   Yes   |    WIP    |

## What did I learn in GSoC

1) Various technologies i.e Docker, Jenkins

1) Groovy Programming and developing Jenkins Shared Library

2) Concepts of DSL and Closure

> 3) Learned about various EDA Tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) Various EDA Tools
```

to proceed with the project.

## Coding Phase

The coding phase was of 3 months, during which I implemented the ideas I proposed in my [GSoC proposal][proposal].

### First Phase

In the first month, I worked on enhancing OpenRISC CI pipelines as it previously worked on Travis CI. The OpenRISC Continuous Integration (CI) suite is now running in a [_librecores-ci-openrisc_][librecores-openrisc] docker container.

#### Links

1. [Modifying mor1k Travis CI flow to use Librecores-CI image][week2report]
2. [Coding Phase 1: Week 3 & 4][week4report]

### Second Phase

In the second phase, we started working on enhancing CI pipelines. We completed work on Yosys synthesis with changes in core description file of [mor1kx][mor1kx] (FuseSoC). This goal led to developments and changes in FuseSoC backend 
[_edalize_][edalize] with its newly released version ``v0.1.6 ``

#### Links

1. Blog: [Coding Phase 2 with Librecores CI, OpenRISC, Fusesoc & Jenkins][phase2report]

2. Presentation: [GSoC/Outreachy 2019: Mid-term project demos, part 2][midtermpresentation]

3. Demo Video: [GSoC/Outreachy 2019: Mid-term project demos, part 2][midtermdemo]

### Third Phase

> In the third month, we completed Yosys Synthesis and published its result [LibreCoresCI Jenkins server][lcciopenrisc] with plot plugin which also led to the release of new version _0.5.0_ of _Librecores CI base_ docker image.

Reviewer: Link changelog?

Author: Added
